all right so what um what is this this
is a goal to describe in a language
which this is a not exact go go
describe the the Lippett of the
interfaces as succinctly as possible
and to try and get like a some structure
that we can then use to potentially
compile into into I think of it kind of
like proto before G RPC where you would
have an interface definition language
that you would write out an interface in
and then you you could use certain kind
of cogent tools to do something with
that like generate stub implementations
or generate RPC things or
interoperability tests or at least
checking that something is using that
some other languages actually has API
coverage that's kind of the goal of this
effort as well as just standardizing
things because right now a lot of the
stuff is in documents which is less
successful than if we have like a test
case that could like test whether or not
like the thing is everyone's converged
sorry I'm just gonna go through these
and just kind of get your take these are
a draft but it gets kind of these seem
kind of obvious but it gets a little bit
funkier underneath so you know at the
very top we have here at least in that
that's how github just decided to
present it because it's not how I would
necessarily introduce it
we have leviair discovery and so this
was the interface that just has discover
pierce a single function that emits an
array of pure infos and so the idea is
that a peer discovery protocol is just
that it just gives you that one single
function and just emits the set of peers
every once in a while come to discover
is very similar it just emits a set of C
IDs now you might say hey like that just
smuggle the CID what that's for my peel
D like what what is that doing there
maybe that should be there maybe I
shouldn't be there
there's a peer routing is where we
actually start thinking about finding
specific peers so having a function
where we qualify here we give it a peer
ID and we get back a specific peer info
for that before that peer then content
runner would be we try to do the same
thing for content we've said put a cid
and we get back in the set of peer infos
that might have that that content so far
so good right like anything who anybody
see this is like totally new no great
that's awesome so here's what I starts
to get a little bit interesting so the
Vino talked a lot about this idea of a
record store a long time ago and this is
where like the type ers nonsence came
out of and and so on but the basic idea
there was to say like look things like
da cheese and things like DNS and things
like pub/sub all use the same kind of
primitive which is a little bit of
information that has usually some kind
of cryptographic checking and some kind
of conditions for validity and everyone
can have reinvents this every once in a
while and every system has different
versions of this so it might be a useful
idea to kind of synthesize that and to
just have one very simple way of
describing what a record is and like the
cryptographic operations you might do on
the record like signing it like
including a proof of something like hey
you claim you have some file maybe
include a proof of that and and then the
validity stuff around like maybe it has
an expiry and you have to check that
that's correct according to you maybe
has a TTL maybe it has an expiry based
on some notion of time like NTP or maybe
it has an expiry based on some stronger
notion of time like a blockchain and so
the idea is like ok well if we started
then creating things like the HDS and
pops up to work over that that kind of
records or then we could probably
duplicate a lot so far that's an idea
it's an idea that like lives on like
some issues and I think maybe Debbie
diplomat just sum up some of the stuff
but that's kind of as far as I got
because that's how we got to a lot of
the IP LD work because then we started
thinking oh what if we start structuring
this it's it's when we tried to
structure these records into and put
them into a BFS that we said wow they
look really sucks that you have to you
don't have structured data in ipfs you
have these files and you don't have the
ability to just put in something like
JSON or or C Bohr and deal with it like
really nicely and that's when we started
exploring all the of that world and then
we got lost there for a while and we're
finally just coming back so it remains
to be seen how much of that we'll use
but the reason I bring it up is because
once you have a record store you can
kind of do a lot of things with it
you can basically build a content router
a peer router peer discovery and content
discovery over any record store now that
might not be a great idea depending on
the semantics of your record store but
the idea is that like if push comes to
shove you could use that and so what
does this mean well at the HD could be a
record store and that has certain
scaling properties as we've seen and so
it works for some things well and it
works less well for others if blockchain
is also a record store and that has
completely different performance
guarantees it is you know kind of
permanent so you know your resolution
will probably work fine but publishing
will be extremely slow but waste lower
than the current DHD but it may be
censorship persistent right so you get
start getting these different properties
falling out of it and there might be
reasons why you might want this this
kind of abstraction so anyway that's all
I will say on that record store then we
start thinking about like dhts and
really what a DHD so far is it just kind
of fulfills these different different
ways these different interfaces peer
discovery appear routing and and so on
you know something like it Emily act
gives you gives you those things we've
talked about that before just pops up
this is like a different attempt at that
consensus one I don't I don't
necessarily like this one then it is
pretty clear that lipid repeat has to
have crypto in it it has to define a
whole crypto module in it you can't
really define things like peer IDs
without it without injecting the notion
of public keys and then once you're
there you have to include private keys
and public keys and hashes and then also
if you have records and signing and so
on your encrypt over there as well so
it's pretty clear that whatever you know
the core interfaces of the p2p are they
have to include some set of abstractions
around crypto one side note this file
the history of this file was that it got
generated I was sitting down with Tim
berners-lee explaining what the PGP was
because you know it's really big and
confusing and okay well let's like walk
through the interfaces and then like
that's not like the beginning of this
file started so like it's kind of funny
one of the things that I got to hear was
that potentially it might make sense for
and we saw this before like should see
IDs beyond should ideally actually
instead of being seen on top of livia to
be actually be a building component that
feels like it leaks too much like you
would want to pull in a multi hash but
there might be reasons for doing this
then where a lot of the complexity of
Lipitor e lives is in the networking
stuff and i kind of want to just hide
that i want to almost like separate all
of the networking pieces like the normal
connectivity networking not like the DHT
networking things like connections
endpoints encrypted connections Luxor's
streams dialers listeners and also
transports and all that kind of stuff
and and just going to put that into
aside like that's just a whole bundle of
stuff that's all related to connections
maybe should be kind of separated out of
it and then I want to get rid of the
host obstruction doesn't go ipfs or
negatory and goalie philippi and I want
to replace it with just calling it a
node as JavaScript does because I think
that's a way better way better idea that
the host concept was was bad
what's that yeah you know yeah you have
a good idea but but it seems like
there's a lipid of he no need to be any
bigger than this
Oh some changing storm force which
that's another nonsense that's right
that's right
almost you probably do on this Bank
yeah I kind of split that out here yeah
so here's a pure idea and Karen first
off customers they're up here okay
that's right
fasteners would be like shoved into the
switch yeah I kind of want all like all
that connectivity messy stuff should
like be bundled in there kind of like
under a rug and like if you want to peek
in there totally welcome to but
otherwise it's you don't you shouldn't
have to this is to go in diem attic is
like useless here yeah it's also not not
worth the considering anyway this is a
draft of like trying to distill the
interfaces down to something like much
more understandable
I don't know quick feedback is this is
this a good thing to pursue do you feel
like it's a good thing to pursue yes
cool all right we'll keep bike shutting
this with that I'll hand it off to the
veep any questions on this yeah this is
good thing to pursue and in a similar to
band what I'm trying to do with the docs
there's a whole like I think there's a
lot of room in the p2p whatever we get
some more organized Doc's for a similar
set of like concepts and I think those
map really closely in a lot of ways to
what you're trying to do here so yep
there's a good concordance and these
things can all go together thank you any
other thoughts comments questions
working on going through IPRs yesterday
with b5 and one thing that we sort of
came across was that there's the
validation schemes and then there's the
ordering and we sort of ended up
settling ones calling like selection
schemes as a way of figuring out what
record should be chosen of a set of
valid ones that was the only one we're
like yes so um so this would be the
conditional function the the idea of
ordering is that it should always be
possible to pick the best record yet you
should have one best record and then I
guess election is you mean you might
have different person you might have
many records that are valid and you
might have multiple purposes for a
record more like it's you take that top
one as your best record but it's still
the rest is still valid yeah yeah yeah
that's right yeah that's right yep so
and and you know a lot of that IPRs
thing is pretty raw like it was kind of
like I I dated and then kind of
abandoned for a while as we launched it
to enter the merkel forest and got lost
there for like years but the but there's
something promising here that is kind of
appealing and so we should keep
massaging this until we find something
that's good one of the things that that
also kind of gets lumped into this is
that and then this is why I peel the
matters here what you can do if the
records are appealed e nodes is that you
can link to code in an authenticated way
so you can have a record linking to the
code that validates it and that might
include all of the code that checks
signatures that checks proofs and all
that kind of stuff so you could have if
a record is and I
the object and it represents a tree of
things then you could self describe the
entire thing you could self describe the
whole everything you need to get to make
sure that this thing is correct and the
reason why that's useful is that when
somebody comes along and builds a new
kind of DHD and/or a new system like
ipfs and invents new records like
providers and so on it would be great if
that could have a very easy onboarding
path into the rest of the network
without meaning and suddenly everyone
has to like deal with this weird new
thing and it should be possible to kind
of contribute that new type of thing to
a growing library of records in the
system
think of it also in terms of DNS so DNS
has a bunch of random Records with weird
types and and weird like the tons of
systems don't implement no support
because they implemented just the basic
ones and now there's there's all these
other types that just don't work with a
bunch of the tooling and it would be
really nice to have like a way of
smoothly upgrading all of that so that
all of those tools could just say oh
yeah this record is pointing to code
that is signed by certain of
such-and-such authorities so we're
totally willing to adopt this whole new
record type without even having to
change the code at all so that's where
that that's that's why kind of I feel to
get smuggled into here but but then
that's annoying because it then like
bubbles and all the way up to into lipid
repeat which is frustrating with the
interfaces any other questions or I will
turn it over to the bead all right sweet